README.md, before:

# Justin St-Amant's Dotfiles

These are my personal configuration files. Please feel free to use them or browse them.

The goal of my dotfiles are to provide me with a portable user experience across
all the machines that I use. At home, I use an Arch Linux laptop. I'm currently
in the process of refactoring the deployment of these files using Ansible and
GNU stow.

I run my system lean. I use a window manager setup, i.e. I pick and choose
every single component that goes into my system. Right now I'm using `awesome`.

I have some utility scripts in the [`bin`](/bin) folder.
Some of my configuration files might depend on these.

If you're looking for my custom Emacs configuration, I've moved it to
[its own repository](https://github.com/jstamant/.emacs.d).
My Spacemacs configuration is found in this repository, though.

## Current Setup - December 2023

![Screenshot](/.assets/2023-12-13-160853-scrot.png)

Here's what I'm running that I have configuration files for:

| Software        | Function/purpose                           |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| *awesome*       | Window manager                             |
| *awful.wibar*   | Status bar (builtin with awesome)          |
| *emacs*         | Text editor                                |
| *alacritty*     | Terminal emulator                          |
| *naughty*       | Notification daemon (builtin with awesome) |
| *ranger*        | Terminal file-manager                      |
| *sxhkd*         | Hotkey daemon                              |
| *autorandr*     | Automatic switching of display setups      |
| *picom*         | Compositor (not currently being used)      |


## Installation & Usage

Clone the repository, then install the dotfiles packages all at once with the
`install.sh` script:

```
git clone https://github.com/jstamant/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~/.dotfiles
./install.sh
```

Or use `stow` from the dotfiles folder to individually manage packages:

```
cd ~/.dotfiles
stow <package_name>           # Installs the folder called <package_name>
stow -D <package_name>        # Stows/uninstalls the links to <package_name>
stow --restow <package_name>  # Uninstalls and re-installs the links to <package_name>
```

In the future, installation of these dotfiles will be managed by an Ansible
playbook that I'm working on. Having a dotfiles repository is nice, but the
convenience isn't worth much if I can't pull the required software at the same
time.

## Older setups

I've tried quite a few combinations of window managers and software over the
years. I have configuration files for these pieces of software that I no longer
use:

- xmonad, window manager
- bspwm, window manager
- dwm, window manager
- i3, window manager
- openbox, window manager
- dunst, notification daemon
- feh, wallpaper-setter
- trayer, system tray
- xmobar, status bar
- polybar, status bar
- tint2, status bar
- xbindkeys, hotkey daemon
- xterm, terminal emulator
- rxvt-unicode, terminal emulator
- st, terminal emulator
- kitty, terminal emulator

Setup from 2022:

![Screenshot](/.assets/2022-02-09-192945-scrot.png)

Setup from 2020: looks like I was trying bspwm as my window manager, at some point!

![Screenshot](/.assets/2020-02-15-133338-scrot.png)

Commit message:

Added NixOS config and starter Flake

README.md, after:

# Justin St-Amant's Dotfiles

These are my personal configuration files. Please feel free to use them or browse them.

*Please note that I'm currently transitioning over to a Nix Flake
setup. This repository might be a mess going forward.*

The goal of my dotfiles are to provide me with a portable user experience across
all the machines that I use. At home, I use an Arch Linux laptop. I'm currently
in the process of refactoring the deployment of these files using Ansible and
GNU stow.

I run my system lean. I use a window manager setup, i.e. I pick and choose
every single component that goes into my system. Right now I'm using `awesome`.

I have some utility scripts in the [`bin`](/bin) folder.
Some of my configuration files might depend on these.

If you're looking for my custom Emacs configuration, I've moved it to
[its own repository](https://github.com/jstamant/.emacs.d).
My Spacemacs configuration is found in this repository, though.

## Current Setup - December 2023

![Screenshot](/.assets/2023-12-13-160853-scrot.png)

Here's what I'm running that I have configuration files for:

| Software        | Function/purpose                           |
| :-------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| *awesome*       | Window manager                             |
| *awful.wibar*   | Status bar (builtin with awesome)          |
| *emacs*         | Text editor                                |
| *alacritty*     | Terminal emulator                          |
| *naughty*       | Notification daemon (builtin with awesome) |
| *ranger*        | Terminal file-manager                      |
| *sxhkd*         | Hotkey daemon                              |
| *autorandr*     | Automatic switching of display setups      |
| *picom*         | Compositor (not currently being used)      |


## Installation & Usage

Clone the repository, then install the dotfiles packages all at once with the
`install.sh` script:

```
git clone https://github.com/jstamant/dotfiles.git ~/.dotfiles
cd ~/.dotfiles
./install.sh
```

Or use `stow` from the dotfiles folder to individually manage packages:

```
cd ~/.dotfiles
stow <package_name>           # Installs the folder called <package_name>
stow -D <package_name>        # Stows/uninstalls the links to <package_name>
stow --restow <package_name>  # Uninstalls and re-installs the links to <package_name>
```

In the future, installation of these dotfiles will be managed by an Ansible
playbook that I'm working on. Having a dotfiles repository is nice, but the
convenience isn't worth much if I can't pull the required software at the same
time.

## Older setups

I've tried quite a few combinations of window managers and software over the
years. I have configuration files for these pieces of software that I no longer
use:

- xmonad, window manager
- bspwm, window manager
- dwm, window manager
- i3, window manager
- openbox, window manager
- dunst, notification daemon
- feh, wallpaper-setter
- trayer, system tray
- xmobar, status bar
- polybar, status bar
- tint2, status bar
- xbindkeys, hotkey daemon
- xterm, terminal emulator
- rxvt-unicode, terminal emulator
- st, terminal emulator
- kitty, terminal emulator

Setup from 2022:

![Screenshot](/.assets/2022-02-09-192945-scrot.png)

Setup from 2020: looks like I was trying bspwm as my window manager, at some point!

![Screenshot](/.assets/2020-02-15-133338-scrot.png)
